So that little video reminds me of our kids growing up.
We had two nativity's.
We had one to look at and one to play with.
So we put one down there that was bendable and durable, we thought, for the kids.
And they all played with it.
Now, Allison, our oldest, was born 30 years old.
You'd see the first born of four.
And she always had to, she wanted to make sure everybody was in the right spot.
You know, the camels couldn't be in the nativity, you know, in the barn.
They had to be outside, because they brought up the kings, you know, later, and she had it all figured out, and her siblings just kept messing things up.
Now, Allison, who is now veterinary, I mean, Sarah, who's now veterinarian, loved animals.
So she played with animals, so sometimes a camel would, you have to that long walk, would be hurt, so she would help the camel out, you know, and,
Emily and Tim were real young and they loved Jesus and would play with Jesus.
And sometimes, yeah, it happened.
We lost Jesus, you know?
And actually Christmas kinda is about a search for Jesus, is it not?
Yeah, so we would search for Jesus, but we always found him.
But one of the things that was traditional in our house was every Christmas Eve after church, we would read the Christmas story from Luke chapter two.
So I want to read that to you tonight.
I'm going to read the first part here and then we'll talk about the second part a little bit later.
So this is from Luke chapter two, beginning with verse one.
In those days, a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered.
This was the first registration when Cornelius was governor of Syria.
and all went to be registered each to his own town.
And Joseph also went up from Galilee from the town of Nazareth to Judea to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was at the house and lineage of David, to be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child.
And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth.
And she gave birth to her firstborn son, wrapped him in swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger because there was no place for them in the end.
If that's all that you knew or we knew or the world knew about Mary, Joseph, and their first son, you wouldn't be very excited about that.
You'd wonder what's all the deal with Christmas.
The story does kind of tug at your heart.
You know, these two Jewish peasants walked or rode a donkey all the way from Nazareth to Bethlehem about 90 miles
She was in her ninth month of pregnancy.
If you could imagine that ladies, you know, traveling 90 miles on the back of a donkey, on and off the donkey at night and so forth and even during the day.
And the donkey's tripping over things and it's just, I can't even imagine that.
I mean, you can't imagine that.
And so, and then they get there and the one Bethlehem in is full.
So the end up,
Going to a barn, the innkeeper let him use his barn, apparently.
And that's where they stayed.
And that's where she gave birth to her first child.
A very unremarkable story, except that it just really tugs at your heart.
But what year is this?
By the way, it's 2025.
Yeah, 2025.
You know why it's 2025?
It's because of that kid.
That kid was so important.
What was about to happen, who he was and what he did was so important.
It literally split time in half, not just for those who would believe in him, but for people who were atheist, agnostics, Buddhist, Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Jews, everybody calls today, this year, 2025, because
of Jesus.
Now, when I was growing up in school, there was B.C.
and A.D. B.C.
stands for what?
Before Christ.
And then A.D. stands for what?
And our nominee in the year of our Lord.
But then secular historians weren't cool with that because they didn't want it to be about Christ, anything to do with Christ.
So they call it B.C.E.
before the common era and then A.C.E.
after the common era.
But you know what?
It's still 2025, isn't it?
Yeah, because of the significance of this kid.
All the Bible points to the sun in the manger, the couch off in Bethlehem.
It was hinted at in the Garden of Eden right after the first sin in the third chapter of the Bible of 66 books.
The third chapter, it hints at that.
Then on the 12th chapter in Genesis, the first promise is clearly made to a nomadic guy named Abram living on the plains of Iraq, called Er the Kaldis back then, but it was just, it's a rock modern day Iraq.
And God says, I'm going to bless you and your offspring are going to bless the whole world.
And then throughout Jewish history, the prophets spoke again and again about
this promise of this coming child.
And then nine months before the scene in the manger, in the stable in Bethlehem, an angel comes and delivers a message to Mary, probably about a 13 year old girl, betroves to a young man of probably about 18 named Joseph.
And the angel said, do not be afraid, Mary, for you found favor with God and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son.
You should call his name Jesus.
Jesus means God with us or God saves.
He will be great and will be called the son of the most high.
And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever and of his kingdom, there will be no end.
And Mary said to the angel, how will this be since I'm a virgin?
And the angel answered her, the Holy spirit will come upon you.
And the power of the most high will overshadow you.
Therefore, the child to be born would be called holy, the son of God.
So this infant lying in a manger in a stable in Bethlehem was the literal son of God, God the son.
He didn't start at that point.
He had existed in eternity past with God the father.
And here he was obviously fully human, but what was not obvious was he was fully God.
And he grew up and lived a perfect life.
And then he gave his life on a cross for our sin.
That was his mission.
He was born so that he could give his life for us.
So here's the big idea I want to unpack for you tonight.
And that is this.
Jesus came to bring you peace with God.
Jesus came to bring you and me and everyone peace with God.
Let's pray.
And then we'll talk about that.
Lord Jesus, we have been here tonight already and celebrated you.
Our music we hope has been pleasing to you, Lord, as we sang the words of praise about who you are and why you came.
So Lord, we just praise you for who you are.
And this evening, we thank you Lord for the anticipation of celebrating Christmas tomorrow.
And it's a good reminder, Lord, that Christmas is all about Christ.
So thank you, Lord, for this time.
And we pray, Lord, that as we open your word, that it would be more than just a story that has been told again and again, and most of everyone, if not everyone in this room has heard.
Lord, we pray that it would be personal, relevant, applicable,
to every person here, Lord, let us hear from you tonight, individually and collectively, in Jesus' name, amen.
So back to Luke chapter two, verse eight.
And in the same region, there were shepherds out in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by night.
Shepherds in their time were generally dishonest people, and they were held in low esteem by the general public.
They had low paying jobs, it was a difficult job,
They slept with the sheep.
They protected them from predators.
They helped them when they got sick.
As I mentioned earlier, my daughter, Sarah, is a veterinarian.
And she was a Gainesville.
She had a rotation where she worked with sheep.
And she said sheep are so fragile.
They're just looking for a place to die.
So these shepherds knew that the sheep they were protecting were fragile.
They were susceptible to being eaten by wolves.
they were susceptible to becoming lost.
If they ever lose the group, the herd, they were lost because they just stuck together.
That's one thing they do really well is they stick together and they stink and they're dirty.
So these shepherds in Bethlehem, which is just a short distance from Jerusalem, were where many of the sheep were raised that were sacrificed on the holy altar
in the temple, the Jewish temple in Jerusalem.
So these guys were raising the very sheep that Jewish people from the king down to the lowest peasant would offer as forgiveness as sacrifice for their sins.
But the irony of it is this, that the Jewish laws of that day forbid them from going to the temple because they were considered ceremonially
unclean so no serious follower of Judaism would have put these dudes in the Christmas story a story that they wanted the whole world to believe nobody would put shepherds in the story so these guys were camping out one more night with a sheep it was dark it was quiet just another night of sheep watching and then boom
And an angel Lord peer to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear.
All of a sudden, the light lit up, I mean, the night lit up with the light of heaven.
There were no street lights.
I mean, there was no light pollution like we would have here.
You can't find a place in Tallahassee, where it's completely dark, unless you're inside a room and turn light off.
There's no such thing.
But here, it was dark all the time.
And then all of a sudden, the very light of heaven shone on these guys.
And it was brighter than the sun, so they're squinting, you know, their eyes are just as the dark, and they're just overcome by what's happening.
And an angel said to them, fear not, that's the first words.
There is a reason he said that, because they were literally scared to death.
For behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people.
For unto you is born this day in the city of David, a Savior who is Christ the Lord.
He says, I bring you good news of great joy.
The words good news actually translate one word.
This translated differently in most of the other times in the New Testament.
It's the word gospel.
So if you've heard Christian people talk about sharing the gospel, this is good news.
This is what they're talking about.
It's the same word that the angel used.
And this good news is of great joy.
And notice that he says it will be for how many people?
All the people.
So what God was doing is he was putting an exclamation point on that.
He was giving us an illustration.
Because when people of the first century would read this story, they would say, look, if God sent an angel to shepherds, those who couldn't even go into the Jewish temple because they were considered religiously spiritually unclean, if he sent an angel to them, and they were the very first ones to hear that Jesus had been born,
It's for everybody.
This good news is not just for the wealthy or the intelligent or the learned.
So the angel said it's for all the people, but the fact who he was speaking to added veracity to what he said.
It really is for everybody because it's just for shepherds as well.
And this will be a sign for you.
You'll find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying.
in a cattle trough, AKA manger.
Angels frequently gave signs to verify their messages.
This is throughout the Bible.
Now why was this sign helpful?
Why did the angels give this sign?
You'll find the baby wrapped in baby cloths and lying in a livestock trough because it would be the only baby in Bethlehem in that area
that newborn that would be in a livestock trough.
And that's how they would know it when they found him.
So the implication was that they're going to go seek him and find him.
And suddenly there was where the angel of multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, glory to God in the highest.
And what?
Don't read with me on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased.
So the heavenly host of angels proclaimed on earth, there will be peace.
Now that's really good news.
Is it not?
Peace on earth.
We could use a little bit of that, right?
I mean, there's wars around the world now.
There are people killing each other in wars.
It seems like it's always that way.
Our world needs peace.
Our country needs peace.
Our city needs peace.
Families need peace.
Do you need a little peace in your life?
I'm not talking a little peace and quiet.
Ladies, you know, I'm not talking about that, you know, so you had the children that's supposed to be crazy at Christmas time.
But the gospel is for those who are restless, who are anxious, who are worried, who are disillusioned, who are distressed, who are conflicted, going through crisis, going through pain.
Peace on earth, I will say though,
It's not the same thing.
It's what we would call world peace.
It'd be great if we had world peace.
It's not the same thing.
You see, you can have peace on earth and notice he says it's for those with whom he is pleased.
Do you find a little tension in what the whole group of angels said with what the first angels said?
The first angel said, it's good news a great joy which will be for how many people?
All people.
Wait.
This says it's, uh, owner of peace among those with whom he is pleased.
So is God just picking out some people said, I'm pleased with you.
I don't like you.
I'm not pleased with you.
I will be pleased with you, but I'm not pleased right now.
Is that, is everything?
It's not.
God doesn't conflict with himself.
What he's saying is that he's bringing peace.
It's available to everyone.
It's good news.
But we have to receive it the way God offers it.
There's a way that God will be pleased and God is pleased.
Well, we'll talk about this a little deeper.
We please him when we trust that what he said is true.
And we're lying on that.
It is possible to be at peace in a world that lacks peace.
That's actually good news.
Because you know what, you and I can't fix the world and give it world peace.
We can't do that, but we can have peace in a world where there's not peace.
Read with me this verse here, John 1633, Jesus says, I've said these things to you that in me you may have peace
In the world, you will have tribulation, but take heart.
I've overcome the world.
We can have peace despite tribulation.
Jesus said, look, it's going to be hard.
Life's going to be hard at times, but be encouraged.
You can still have peace, even when you feel like maybe your life has fallen apart.
or your life is at a dead end, or your life is confused, you don't know about the future, you don't know where to go, you're anxious, you're discouraged, in this world you will have that, you can have peace despite that, because I'm bigger than your problems, I'm bigger than your tribulation.
John 14, 27, he says again, peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you, I do not give to you as the world gives.
Real peace is found in Jesus.
So how can we find
our missing peace.
How can you find your missing peace?
Three things I wanna talk to you about.
Number one, we find it by faith.
You can find your missing peace.
Maybe if you're searching for peace and you feel like, look, you're talking to me pastor, because this is what I'm feeling right now.
I know I'm supposed to be at peace, but inside, if you could see what's inside, it's confused, it's anxious, it's difficult, that we can find peace.
Jesus came to bring peace.
that we find peace in Jesus by faith.
Romans 5, one says this, therefore, since we've been justified by how?
By faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Justified is a legal term.
That means if you're guilty, you're not at right with the state or whoever law you've violated, city, county,
state, federal government, the state.
So it's a legal term.
So when we sin, that's a violation of God's glory, God's holiness, His commands.
That's how sins are defined.
It's violating what God says to not do or failing to do something God says to do or fantasizing about things that are unholy and ungodly.
So when we have sin, that separates us from God.
So there's a mark against us.
We are not right with God.
Justification is being made right with God.
We can have peace with God.
And it's only through faith.
It isn't through our penance.
We can't do good works.
It's not like it's a probation and you're assigned so many hours of community service.
Even a bajillion hours, you know, it's not that you can't, we can't undo our sin.
We can't erase that record.
It has to be dealt with.
And in our heart of hearts, we all know that the Bible is true when it says all of sinned and falls short of the glory of God.
We know, yep, I'm a sinner.
I mean, I'm in that group.
So we all need to be justified, but we can only be justified by the work that Jesus has already done for us.
As I said earlier,
He was born in a manger.
He grew up and Mary and Joseph watched him grow up and then knew he was special, but he'd never sinned.
Can you imagine how hard it would be to be his brothers?
You know, there's some fighting going on and you hear it in the background and Mary says, James,
Mom, why are you always calling out James?
Why are you calling me out?
Son, you know that your brother's perfect.
So it was always you.
So Jesus was perfect and he gave his life for us.
So he could give his life for us as a sacrifice, a perfect sacrifice, but he didn't stay dead, right?
He rose from the dead, proved that he was who he said he was and proved that he had victory over sin and death in the grave.
So he could justify us.
We can't do that.
We can't live a perfect life down across, be right, raise ourselves from the dead.
It's about trusting in what he's already done.
The difference in Christianity and every other religion of the world can be summed up in two words, do versus done.
Every other religion in the world from the beginning of time till now is about what you can do to please your God or gods.
Christianity is about what Jesus has already done.
That's why it is impossible for anyone else to know for sure about the afterlife because it's up to them.
How will they know if they could do enough or they've done enough?
But Jesus says that we can have life and have it to the full.
We can know that we have eternal life.
through faith in Him.
So we can have peace.
I know where I'm going.
This life is hard, but I know where I'm going.
If the worst happens to me, I know I'm okay because I have peace with God and my eternity is secure.
Hebrews 11, 6 says it this way, without faith, it's impossible to please Him.
For whoever would draw near to God must believe that He exists and that He rewards those who seek Him.
Yes, he offers peace with all with whom he is pleased.
What it takes to please God is what that verse says right there.
Trust.
Trusting.
Trust of what he says is true.
Trust in Christ for forgiveness.
And that's how we can have be justified before God because he's already paid for the penalty.
A second thing, not only do we find it by faith that is peace with God, we protect it by prayer.
We protect our peace by prayer.
You know, it is possible to have peace with God, that is to be a follower of Jesus, to be engaged in church activities and reading the Bible every day and praying and having, it is possible to be at peace with God and still be anxious.
Can anyone identify with that?
You know, I'm reading a book called The Anxious Generation.
actually written by an atheist, which is interesting.
Great book.
I've just really started.
I've heard the guy speak, so I wanted to get it and read it.
But he talks about how there's an epidemic of anxiety among teenagers and young adults.
Gen Z, mostly, or to the greatest extent, but also millennials as well.
There's a lot of anxiety.
It's real.
I see it in ministry.
I see it in families.
I see it in young people.
And it breaks my heart.
It's real, it's hard.
We can have peace with God, we can be justified with God, and we can have our eternity secure.
But there's a life to live between now and then, right?
And sometimes we experience anxiety.
God knows that.
And God gives us a solution, not a cure like this, but he gives us a practice that helps with that.
And this is in Philippians 4, 6, and 7.
Do not be anxious about, read this with me.
Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
He says, pray with supplication, prayer and supplication, pray with supplication, supplication is request.
So pray specifically,
Uh, pray specifically for what you're feeling, for what, what's hurting, what your desires are, what, what your interest is, what, you know, pray specifically, confessing sins, whatever, you know, pray specifically, but also pray with gratitude, pray gratefully.
There's something powerful about gratitude.
Very powerful.
When you're feeling down, if you will just stop,
and thank God for three things.
It may be 10 things, just thank God.
Sometimes the reason that we're having anxiety is because of what's going on.
All the bad stuff that's going on, whether it's an illness, whether it's a loss of a loved one, a loss of a relationship, loss of a job, bad things, tribulation, as Jesus said.
And sometimes it's just the anticipation
What could go wrong?
Everything's going right right now.
What if he doesn't call me?
He hasn't texted me all day.
What's wrong?
I don't see any post on social media.
So there's anxiety about what could happen.
But if we are grateful, it changes our perspective about how the world is happening to us and how we are living in the world.
And that's why it's here.
So, pray specifically, pray gratefully and do this consistently.
You make this a habit.
It begins to change your perspective.
That's what this is about.
So, we find peace with God through faith.
We protect it by prayer.
It has to be not just something you do once in a while, but something you do on a regular basis.
It's like eating right or exercising.
It's spiritual exercise.
And the second and last thing is this, repair it by forgiveness.
repair your peace by forgiveness.
Unresolved conflict, no secret.
It robs us of peace, right?
I wonder, I wonder if in this Christmas season, there's some people in your life that you really don't want to be with, but you know they're going to be sitting at the table tomorrow or next weekend or
Maybe they hear tonight.
I don't know, you know, so And maybe if you get a mirror out and look up, you know, they feel the same way about you, right?
So It's interesting that relationships are the best part of life And they can be the worst part of life, right?
Let's be real At Christmas, we feel this even greater tension because We don't want it to be that way
We know it's not right.
We don't want it to be that way.
Romans 12, the beginning of verse 18 says this, if it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone.
It doesn't say, if it's easy, live at peace with everyone.
If it's easy, everybody be at peace, there'd be no shooting, there'd be no conflict in the world that was bad.
Everybody would be happy.
Don't worry, be happy.
It's just not like that.
That's not the real world.
But if it is possible, sometimes it's hard.
If it is possible as far as it depends on you, you can't be responsible for other people's responses, but you are responsible for owning yours.
And he says, what we can do when they're not receiving that, when they're not accepting the peace that we're trying to offer,
19, do not take revenge, my dear friends, but leave room for God's wrath.
First written, it is mine to avenge.
I'll repay, says the Lord.
God says, look, I'm going to take care of them.
I'm going to take care of this.
You just leave it to me.
On the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him.
If he's thirsty, give him something to drink.
In doing this, you will heat burning coals on his head.
Okay, we're going to come back to that.
Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with what?
Yeah.
Heat burning culture on this head.
So this is not like home alone, you know, the scene.
This is not like burn all the hair off his head.
This is actually an interesting thing.
It's kind of a, it's a contextual point that Paul was making in this time in the first century.
There were no matches.
It was hard to start fires.
So people once they got a fire burning would keep their coals and sometimes they would take them with them.
So what he's saying is, even if the fire goes out of their house, you take some coals and give it to them so that they can keep burning coals on them so that they can start their fire up.
Not so you can burn them with it.
In other words, kill them with kindness, basically.
Here's the deal.
It takes two to reconcile a relationship, but it only takes you to forgive.
You don't forgive because people deserve it.
You don't earn forgiveness.
It's not for takeness, it's forgiveness.
You're not taking something from them before you give it.
You have to give it.
So you have to go frozen on them.
Let it go, let it go, and let God work.
You got to do that, but I'm telling you, when you let it go, even if it's unfair, it's unfair all the time, how many people have forgiven you because it was unfair?
It's not about fairness.
It wasn't fair for Jesus to die for us, but we received forgiveness for what he gave for us.
How could we do less?
Maybe this Christmas in the tension in your family.
Or the tension with a friend or former friend.
Let it go.
Forgive them, release it.
That is powerful.
And you will have the peace repaired in your heart.
Let it go.
When you're holding on to that bitterness and resentment, you're only poisoning yourself.
It's not hurting the other person.
Let it go.
Find peace with God through faith in Jesus.
It's the only way.
protect your peace by prayer.
When you're feeling anxious, pray specifically about what you're feeling anxious about, and list a whole bunch of things you're grateful for.
And it'll begin to change your perspective.
Trust God on that.
He promises peace.
And kind of the third thing is forgive.
You fix it.
You repair it by forgiveness.
Jesus came to bring you peace with God.
Do you have peace with God?
Has there been a time in your life when you can look back and say,
You know, pastor, I understood this.
I understood that I had sinned in my life and I understood that I was at odds with God.
And I knew that Jesus had paid the penalty for my sin and I couldn't save myself.
So I trusted him.
I placed my faith and trust in him and I started following him.
Can you point to a time in your life when you did that?
Man, I hope you can, but if you can't,
It could be tonight.
What better time to decide to place your faith in the baby and the manger who grew up to be your savior than in the day that we celebrate his birth?
Let's pray.
If you're here tonight and you've never placed your faith and trust in Jesus, I'm not talking about repeating a prayer with someone because your parents wanted you to do that or
Your friend wanted you to do that, your spouse wanted you to do that.
But when you came to the point in your life where you realized, I want that.
I trust Jesus and I want to place my faith and trust in him right now.
I want to tell him that.
If that's what you'd like to do, you can do that right now.
So would you just tell him that?
Tell him that you want to place your faith and trust in him.
Tell him that you realize that you're a sinner.
And you're so grateful that he gave his life to pay for your sins.
Thank him for that.
And tell him tonight that you want to let this be the first step in following him going forward.
Tell him that you believe that he rose from the dead and he's allowed today.
and you want him to direct your life going forward.
Thank you, Lord Jesus, for the promise you said he who believes has eternal life.
So I thank you for those today that one person, the many people tonight of those who are watching online that said yes to Jesus and they will be blessed because they said yes to you in Jesus name.
Amen.